## Simple Storage Service (S3)

Object storage, files/images etc.

Unlimited storage, objects can be be from 0 to 5TB.

Charged for the download, uploading is free.

S3 is a universal namespace, names must be globally unique.

Read after write consistency for `PUT`s of new objects, eventual consistency for overwrite `PUT`s and `DELETE`s (can take time to propagate).

Maximum object size is 5TB. You can use the multi-part upload API to upload files that are generally larger than 100MB. This allows you to upload large files in smaller chunks (independently and in any order), if any part fails to upload you can retry that without affecting any of the other uploaded parts. When all the parts are uploaded, S3 assembles the parts and creates the object.

### Object Structure

- `Key`: name of object
- `Value`: the data (sequence of bytes)
- `Version ID`: within a Bucket, a key and version Id are unique (for version control)
- `Metadata`
- `Subresources` (Bucket specific)
  - Bucket Policies, ACLs
  - CORS (Cross Origin Resource Sharing)
  - Transfer Acceleration

### Safety

AWS guarantees 99.999999999% (11 9s) durability for information across all tiers.

AWS guarantees the following availability:

- 99.99%
  - S3 Standard
  - S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval
  - S3 Glacier Deep Archive
- 99.9%
  - S3 Intelligent Tiering
  - S3 Standard Infrequently Accessed
  - S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval
- 99.5%
  - S3 One Zone Infrequently Accessed

### Storage Tiers

#### S3 Standard

Designed to handle losing two data centers

First byte latency is in milliseconds.

#### S3 Intelligent Tiering

For unknown or unpredictable access patterns.

Access tiers:

- Frequent access
- Infrequent access, after 30 consecutive days (40% lower-cost tier)
- Rarely accessed, after 90 days of no access (68% lower-cost tier)
- Deep Archive, after 180 days (up to 95% savings)

It will automatically move to the most cost effective tier.

Includes a small monthly object monitoring and automation charge. There are no retrieval charges in the Intelligent-Tiering, it will be automatically moved back to the Frequent Access tier. If it is in Deep Archive, you must first `RestoreObject` before you can retrieve the object.

First byte latency is in milliseconds.

#### S3 Standard IA (Infrequently Accessed)

Cheaper than S3 but you are charged to retrieve. Intended for less frequently accessed data but requires rapid access when needed, this makes it a good option for backups or disaster recovery files.

First byte latency is in milliseconds.

#### S3 One Zone AI (Infrequently Accessed)

Same as Standard AI however it is only in a single availability zone. Same 11 9s for durability but only 99.95% for availability, costs 20% less than Standard AI. This is a good option for secondary backup copies of on-premises data or easily re-creatable data.

Data will be lost in the event of a complete availability zone destruction.

First byte latency is in milliseconds.

#### S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval

Used for long-lived data that is rarely access and requires retrieval in milliseconds. Can save up to 68% on storage costs compares to S3 Standard Infrequent Access (when data is accessed once per quarter). A good option for archive data that requires immediate access, such as medical images, new media assets, or user-generated content archives.

128KB minimum object size.

First byte latency is in milliseconds.

#### S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval

Formally S3 Glacier.

Used for archive data that is accessed 1-2 times per year and is retrieved asynchronously. Good for backup, disaster recovery, offsite data storage, and when some data occasionally need to be retrieved in minutes and you don't want to worry about costs.

First byte latency is in minutes or hours.

#### S3 Glacier Deep Archive

Lowest cost storage class and supports long-term retention and digital preservation for data that may be accessed once or twice a year. Good for customers in highly-regulated industries such as financial services, healthcare, and public sectors, that retain data sets for 7-10+ years to meet regulatory compliance. Can also be used for backup recovery use cases, and is a cost effective and easy-to-manage alternative to magnetic tape systems.

First byte latency is within 12 hours.

#### S3 Outpost

Provides object storage to your on-premises AWS Outpost environment.

### Encryption

AWS S3 provides server-side encryption (AES-256) using AWS maintained keys or customer provided keys. It is an optional step when you upload your data, it is on by default with AWS S3 Glacier.

#### Amazon S3 Managed Keys (SSE-S3)

The key is managed by S3. Each object is encrypted with its own unique key. The keys are then encrypted with a master key that is regularly rotated.

#### AWS KMS (Key Management Service) Managed Keys (SSE-KMS)

You get extra permissions for the envelope key, the key that encrypts your encryption key. You also get an audit trail that records the use of the keys.

#### Custom Provided Keys (SSE-C)

Use your own key for the encryption. It is up to you to rotate the keys (manage the lifecycle etc.) but AWS manage the actual encryption.

#### Client Side Encryption

Customers can also encrypt data before storage, this is just storing already encrypted data.

#### Enforcing Encryption

Every time a file is uploaded, a `PUT` request is initiated. You can use headers to force server side encryption at upload time. This can be enforced with a policy that does not allow requests that do not include the header.

#### Encryption in Transit

Handled with SSL/TLS (HTTPS).

### Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

It is just allowing a resource in one bucket to access a resource in another bucket.
